Hashtags do not work anymore. Here's
what does. Search engine optimization,
shareworthy content, upycling,
hyperfrequency, carousels, variety, and
trial reels. Those seven things are
exactly what I'm going to be teaching
you in today's episode. Those are the
strategies that are most efficient and
proven to get results to help you get
more views, more followers, and most
importantly of all, more customers on
Instagram. But before we dive into those
seven strategies, how the heck do we
even know that hashtags are dead? I've
been proclaiming that hashtags are dead
since way back in 2021. But here are
three examples of proof that show that
hashtags are far less effective than
they used to be. Number one, when asked
if hashtags are a reliable way to
increase your reach, the head of
Instagram said this.
>> I got a lot of hate for this.
>> I I'm sure. Yeah, I know you do. Is that
hashtags are no longer a primary way to
increase your reach on Instagram.
>> They don't significantly increase your
reach on Instagram. Gotcha. Contrary to
popular belief, it's just not an
important thing for for reach.
>> And besides just saying that to me in
our interview, he has also said that
numerous times on his own Instagram
stories. But don't just take his word
for it. The second piece of evidence
that I have is that Instagram has been
increasingly limiting or even reducing
or even completely getting rid of
different features relating to hashtags.
Earlier this year, they removed the
ability to follow hashtags. So now when
people make a post using a certain
hashtag, that post is no longer eligible
to be recommended on your feed.
Additionally, Instagram got rid of the
entire recents section below hashtags.
It used to be that when you looked at a
hashtag, there were two different
categories, two different feeds below
that hashtag. One was the top, the most
popular posts who have used that
hashtag, and the other was recent, which
showed every single post that was
recently made in reverse chronological
order using said hashtag. that was
deleted. And then just recently, within
the last month, Instagram has made
arguably the biggest change to hashtags
that they have ever made since the
launch of the platform. And that is that
they are significantly reducing the
number of hashtags that you can use on
your posts. Since the dawn of Instagram,
you've been able to use 30 hashtags on
whatever post you make to your feed. But
recently, many Instagram users have
received a popup when adding hashtags to
their caption. Specifically, this popup
is a warning telling them that they are
not allowed to use more than five or in
some cases even more than three hashtags
in their caption. This is essentially an
80 to 90% reduction in the number of
hashtags that you can use in your
caption and it signals a significant
change that is taking place on
Instagram. Now, also in my conversation
with Adam Moseri earlier this year,
which by the way, if you haven't watched
that yet, by the end of 2025, do
yourself a favor and check out that
interview. We're working on an updated
version for 2026. So, make sure you're
subscribed because if we do get that
interview, if we do get to do an updated
round two, you want to make sure that
that video, that interview shows up on
your YouTube homepage the second I
release it. And if you have a question
that you would like me to ask the head
of Instagram in our 2026 updated
interview, just comment the letter Q and
then your question on this episode and I
will know that that's a question that
you specifically want me to ask him. But
I digress. What he said in our interview
earlier this year is that they do not
plan on removing hashtags altogether.
And I believe him when he says that I
don't think that there's going to be a
day, at least within the next year or
two, where hashtags are totally removed
from the platform. I think that would
cause way too much of an uproar and way
too much of a headache. But ultimately,
this uproar and this headache is because
a lot of people think that hashtags are
still a reliable way to grow. Hashtags
are still an effective way to get more
views when the data suggests otherwise.
The third and final piece of evidence
that I want to present to you is a new
study that was published by Social Pilot
where they analyzed millions of
Instagram posts. And what they found was
that posts with zero hashtags on average
performed 23% better than posts that had
one or more hashtags. Additionally, in
that study, they found that there was an
inverse relationship between hashtag
usage and reach. Basically, to say that
in layman's terms, the more hashtags you
used, the less views you got. And take
it from me, a guy who used to sell a
course called Help with Hashtags that
was literally designed to help people
find the optimal list of hashtags to get
more views and to grow more followers on
Instagram. They just don't work anymore.
But there are things that do still work.
You can still grow. In the last 12
months, our average engaged Insta Club
member has grown by an average of almost
16,000 followers. So, yeah, it's
definitely still possible, but the
strategies and techniques that we need
to use have changed. So, let's go
through those seven strategies, the
seven most effective, most efficient
strategies that you can use to actually
see results on Instagram. And the one
final thing that I will say is that
everything is a general recommendation.
Everything is a best practice. So, if
you are still using hashtags on your
post, and as long as you're not using
more than Instagram allows you to use,
you're seeing good results, you're
seeing growth, maybe even you're seeing
reach and people discovering you from
your hashtags, that's great. Go ahead
and keep using them. When I say hashtags
are dead or forget about hashtags, the
overarching message that I want you to
take away is that hashtags should not be
a source of stress or frustration. They
should not be something that you're
spending very much time on. The majority
of your time, energy, and effort would
be much better spent in some of these
strategies that I'm about to describe to
you rather than researching and finding
your optimal list of hashtags. Number
one, the arch nemesis of hashtags and
the reason that hashtags are largely
being phased out is because of search
engine optimization. Not to get too lost
in the techy weeds here, but basically
hashtags were created as a way to
categorize your content to say, "Hey
Instagram, this is a picture of # pizza.
Hey Instagram, this is a hashtag yoga
flow." But now, the artificial
intelligence that runs the Instagram
algorithm has become so advanced and so
much smarter than when Instagram first
launched that it doesn't need you to
tell it what your post is about or who
your reel is intended to be viewed by.
Instead, it's able to deduce a lot of
that information for itself. It's able
to scan your post. It's able to
transcribe your reels. It's able to read
your caption. It's able to read your
comments. It's able to analyze all of
this information. And that gives it a
much more clear picture than you ever
could even with all 30 hashtags. Search
engine optimization really boils down to
one key word and that is keywords.
Keywords are what SEO is all about. And
keywords are something that feel very
over complicated when really a keyword
is just any important word in your
sentence in your reel or in your
caption. And so with that being said,
here are some dos and don'ts for
keywords in order to improve your SEO on
Instagram. Number one, use the keywords
organically instead of trying to cram
them into your caption or force yourself
to say specific words in your reel. When
you are scripting your reels, when
you're writing your caption, when you're
coming up with the text that you're
going to put on the screen, just try to
in natural sentences the way normal
humans speak, include important words
and important phrases that describe your
post and articulate who the intended
audience is. And that directly relates
to the first don't of SEO on Instagram,
which is do not do what's called keyword
stuffing. Keyword stuffing is this
growth hack that was invented where
people would write their entire caption,
they'd make their post, and then at the
bottom of their caption, they would type
out a bunch of keywords, kind of like
the tags on YouTube, like they would
instead of putting like hashtag pizza, #
New York pizza, hashtags slice of pizza,
they would just write those words and
separate them by commas. pizza, slice of
pizza, comma, New York pizza. That's
considered keyword stuffing.
Additionally, there was kind of this
like next level hack that was in created
by some Instagram guru where you would
take those words, those keywords that
you were going to add to your caption or
that you were going to type out as
hashtags. Instead, you put them on your
video and then you match the color of
the text to the color of the background
so that they kind of like blend in. And
then people would even like shrink the
text down super duper small so that the
chance of a viewer actually seeing it
was near impossible because it again it
blended in. It matched the background.
It was super small. But the thought was
that then the algorithm would read those
words. And long story short, Instagram
figured out what people were doing and
they quickly caught on and said that
this is considered spammy behavior. And
Instagram in one of their posts about a
year ago specifically said that if you
do keyword stuffing, the algorithm will
detect it and your post will be
downranked, aka shown to less people
because of that. So do not do keyword
stuffing. Use the keywords organically
and naturally in your spoken words in
your sentences in your caption and typed
out with the text on screen. The second
do when it comes to keywords is to focus
on quality keywords rather than
quantity. In these examples I've been
giving you, I've been saying # New York
pizza, pizza slice, New York slice,
cheese pizza. Those are super generic.
They are not very high quality keywords.
Generally speaking, a higher quality
keyword is going to be longtail, meaning
that it's going to have two, three,
four, even five words in that phrase or
in that keyword because that's what
makes it more specific. One way that you
can think of this is the drunk grandma.
You want your keywords to be able to be
understood by a drunk grandma. If you
were to say these keywords or say these
phrases to a drunk grandma, could she
get a general understanding of what your
post was about or who the intended
audience was? I'll give you some
examples in just a second, but generally
speaking, what I think people are doing
wrong is they're getting too vague with
their keywords, and so they lack that
specificity, which the algorithm really
needs to pinpoint who your target
audience is. and then serve up your
content to said audience. My final tip
for your keywords with some examples is
the two most important places for your
SEOfriendly keywordridden sentences and
phrases and words. And those two key
places are number one, the first
sentence of your caption and number two,
the name line on your Instagram profile.
Let's talk about the caption first. The
entire caption matters, the entire post
matters, the spoken word matters. All
these different areas are analyzed by
the algorithm, but for whatever reason,
that first sentence or those first few
sentences of the caption are what are
most analyzed or what are weighted most
heavily by the algorithm. So, if I made,
let's say, a really great recipe and I
was uh posting a real about said recipe,
I could say in my first sentence of the
caption, save this easy recipe. Because
I'm like, oh, hey, easy recipe. That's
what this is. That's an SEO friendly
keyword phrase, right? Well, yes, but
it's too vague. Yes, a drunk grandma
could understand that, but it's so vague
she couldn't pinpoint what the recipe
is, right? And so rather than using
something generic like that, let's embed
let's bake in, pun intended, some more
SEO friendly keywords into that
sentence. Instead, I could say something
like, "Save this easy gluten-free
Thanksgiving mac and cheese recipe." Has
a lot more keywords. It's a lot more
searchable, and it helps the algorithm
determine what my post is about. So much
more than just save this easy recipe.
And then, like I said, the other really
important place in your Instagram where
SEO matters is the name line on your
Instagram bio. The username, also known
as handle, is one of a kind. I'm Brock
11 Johnson and so no one else on
Instagram can be Brock 11 Johnson which
quick sidebar if you're not following me
on Instagram make sure that you're
following me on Instagram because I'm
posting daily tips and strategies and
ideas all the time over there so make
sure you check me out but no one else
can have that same username but your
Instagram name can be identical to
someone else's. I say that to just make
sure that you know that you can put
keywords on there that other people
have. And that line is 100% searchable.
It's 100% searchable on Instagram and
off of Instagram, meaning that if anyone
searches on Google or chat GPT or on
Instagram's native search bar, you will
come up if you have those keywords and
those phrases in your name line.
Additionally, your nameline has a lot
more freedom and flexibility. I believe
you have up to 56 characters that you're
allowed to put on that nameline. So,
instead of putting something like recipe
creator or home chef, I would put
something like easy gluten-free dinners
or recipes for moms of four plus.
Basically, you want to include more
keywords and more phrases on that
nameline to improve your searchability.
My all-time favorite example of when
this proved beneficial for someone was
actually before my interview with Adam
Ozeri, I needed a media team, right? I
needed people to actually film our
interview and I didn't have like a
filming crew to take you kind of a peek
under the hood or uh behind the curtains
for a second. I'm filming by myself in
my office right now. I set up my phone.
I set up my camera, which yes, my second
cam is literally just my phone. This is
just my computer. I have two lights.
This is my microphone. I have my script
on my iPad in front of me. Like, all of
this is me. So, shout out to me, but no,
I I don't mean to toot my own horn. When
I was doing that interview with Mosi, I
was like, I can't do this myself. I'm
definitely not going to rely on myself
to like press start and stop on all the
cameras. So, I had to reach out to a
media team, like a production team, a
filmer to uh, you know, film and and
create the whole podcast. And so, in
order to find said videographer, I went
to Instagram and I searched San
Francisco videographer and that's how I
found my guy. There were definitely
other videographers who probably could
have done a better job and charged me
less, but on their Instagram nameline,
they had like Wave Wind Media or
whatever their like cute little tagline
was or we make your dreams come true or
you know your videography bestie. Like
they had these things that were not SEO
friendly. they were nicknames or
taglines or pseudo names or maybe they
just had a repeat of their company name,
but instead because the guy I hired had
San Francisco videographer in his
nameline, I was able to find him, looked
through his stuff, looked good. I DM'd
him, I hired him, and boom, now you have
that interview. So, by strategically
including quality keywords in your
captions, in your nameline, in your bio,
and in your posts in general, you will
get discovered more. You will show up in
more search results. you will help the
algorithm place you in front of the
people who actually want to see your
content and you'll get more views,
engagement, and growth because of it.
The second strategy that will help you
see better results on Instagram is
focusing on creating shareworthy
content. And that's because shares are
the best kind of engagement on
Instagram. When you get one share, you
get disproportionately more views than
if you were to get a like, a comment, or
a save. Shares help you reach not only
more people, but they also help you
reach the right people. Like I've said a
few times, the algorithm's job is to
show us the content that it thinks we
want to see. But ultimately, it's just
guessing. With a share, however, you are
sending a post to someone who you know
they're going to watch it. Like, I bet
while I'm recording this podcast today,
my wife who's out in the living room, I
bet she's sending me reels. And guess
what? Those reels that she's sending me,
it's not like a guess if I would be
interested. She knows I would be
interested. and I am way more likely to
watch those than to watch whatever the
algorithm recommends I watch next. When
you send posts to your friends, your
family, your colleagues, they are the
intended target audience. They are the
ideal viewer. They are the most likely
to be engaged potential follower of that
piece of content. So shares don't only
equal more viewers, they equal better
viewers. Now, I could do an entire
podcast on creating shareworthy content
and I have. And so I'll put the link up
here if you want to click on the YouTube
video or I'll put it in the description
below if you want to listen to that
entire episode. But in short, I've
recently come up with an acronym to help
you remember what is shareworthy
content. Shareworthy content is S
simple. That means that again a drunk
grandma could understand it. It means
that you are using easy to understand
language. It means that you are being as
concise as possible. You're not being
long-winded. You're not being redundant.
You're not trying to stroke your own ego
by using fancy words and synonyms. You
are making your content easy to binge
and easy to watch. Hook. The hook is the
most important part of any piece of
content. And the hook, we often times
focus so much on just the words that
we're saying or the text on the screen,
but an easy way to make a big difference
in the effectiveness of your hooks is to
focus on the visual, the actual what's
on the screen. What's happening in the
video? What is the eye going to first?
and the audio. Is there music? Is there
sound effects? Is there a delay? Is
there something that builds tension or
curiosity and makes me want to keep
watching? Paying attention to the visual
and the audio in addition to just the
text or the words that you're saying is
so key. Additionally, for your hooks, I
generally recommend keeping them in a 5
to 8 word range. It's okay if you go a
little bit longer or a little bit
shorter, but generally you want to keep
them as short and concise as possible.
And whenever possible, use a negative
word. Basically, you want to include
words like don't, stop, avoid, cancel,
lose, stay away from, deny, decline,
whatever. Those sorts of negative words
whenever possible because those are
often what our brains pay more attention
to and thus we are more likely to stop
and pay attention to your posts. A,
authentic. When people talk about
authenticity, you often hear just be
yourself. But I don't think that's very
helpful advice. So instead, when I say
authentic, here's a tactical way that
you can make your posts more shareworthy
by being more authentic. Reduce the
amount of time between idea and
execution. Reduce the amount of time
between, "Oh, hey, I think I have this
post idea. Oh, hey, I I think I could
talk about that question. Oh, hey, I
think I could talk about that topic."
And actually posting the post, not just
making it, not just editing it, not just
planning it, but actually posting it. I
believe that the more time we spend
editing, refining, script writing, and
planning our posts, the worse they are
going to do. I mean, think about
yourself. How many times have you made a
post that you were like, "Oh, this one's
going to go viral. This one's going to
do great. This one's going to be
hilarious. This post is going to make me
famous." And then you spend hours
working on it and you post it and it
flops. And then think about the flip
side of that coin. Think about how many
times you just kind of like whipped
something up. Maybe it was a meme. Maybe
it was like a quick news headline. Maybe
it was just like some random B-roll post
that you didn't even think about. You
just whipped it up and posted it. Maybe
you didn't even think about it after you
posted it. And you came back a few hours
later and you were like, "Oh my gosh,
this is my best post of the month. This
is my best post of the year. This post
is going viral." And you put less time,
energy, and effort into it. I believe
that the reason that that happens is the
less time we spend editing and refining
and trimming and planning our posts, the
more true to ourselves they are. the
more it's just like brain onto the page
or onto the post or onto Instagram.
Boom. And we're done. We're not like
filtering it. We're not adding layers of
refinement and getting farther away from
the true idea that we had. So, in short,
if you want to be more authentic, spend
less time editing and more time posting.
The next letter in the acronym is R. R
stands for relatable. And relatability
comes from specificity. Basically, be
specific. Tell specific stories. Include
specific nuances. Include details.
Include more specifics than you think
you might otherwise include. Because
what we often do is when we're making
posts for social media, we think, "Oh, I
need to be vague. I need to appeal to
everyone. I need to make sure that
everyone can understand and like this
post." And so we end up doing is we
really water down our experiences. We
water down our opinions. We water down
the stories that have taken place that
we want to share that we want to tell.
And because of this, sure, everyone can
understand it. Everyone it makes sense
to, everyone can kind of relate, but no
one really relates that strongly.
Instead, I want you to include specifics
when you're telling stories. I want you
to include details when you are making a
post. So, if I was making a post about
how you spend a bunch of time making a
real and then it doesn't do well, I
could put text on the screen that says,
"When you spend a bunch of time making a
real and it doesn't do well." Everyone
can relate to that. Everyone can relate
to spending a bunch of time and it not
doing well. But instead, it would be
more relatable if I got more specific.
So, if I put text on the screen that was
like, "When I spend 3 hours editing a
reel and it gets seven likes," those
numbers are more specific. And you could
argue that less people have spent
exactly 3 hours and got exactly seven
likes. But because it's more specific,
it will be more relatable and thus it
will be more shareworthy. Finally, last
but not least, E. E could have been a
point in and of itself, like not just a
point within shareworthiness, but a
point within how to grow on Instagram.
And E is to focus on entertaining
content. Put entertainment first. My
interview with the head of Instagram
earlier this year is the interview
that's getting all the attention and all
the views. But the interview that I
think you might actually benefit more
from listening to is my interview with
the head of Instagram for business. I
uploaded it here on the channel a few
months ago. It was with Thomas Fenetto.
And in that conversation, he said that
brands and business owners need to think
about entertainment first. It needs to
be their number one priority when they
are creating content. Not value, not
education, not uh how funny can this be,
not how relatable can this be, but
entertainment. And sure, sometimes
entertainment comes from value.
Sometimes it comes from relatability.
Sometimes it comes from humor. But
focusing on entertainment first and
foremost and really asking yourself,
would this post be entertaining? Like
when people are seeing thousands and
thousands of other posts in the day, is
this post really worth their time? Is
this post really going to grab their
attention and make them lock in so that
they pay attention throughout the entire
post, the entire slideshow, and then
read the entire caption? And if not, how
could we improve the entertainment
factor so that more people do spend more
time with this post? Strategy number
three to see better results on Instagram
is what I like to call upycling. And
upycling is my all-time favorite
strategy because it helps you see better
results in less time. Upycling is all
about saving your time, energy, and
effort so you can focus on other things
so you can reclaim your life and stop
spending so much damn time on Instagram.
Upcycling is essentially the idea of
taking a post that you have previously
posted and posting it a second time or
recreating a slightly modified version
and then posting that a second time.
Basically, you've already done the work
to make a post. Most people didn't see
it the first time and the algorithm will
not punish you for posting it a second
time. So, my recommendation is once it's
been 90 days or more, post it again. Or
if you want to make a slightly modified
version, if there's maybe one tip that's
outdated or one thing that you know, you
filmed it wearing a Santa hat because it
was December, but now it's March. Okay.
Well, then maybe you film it in a new
setting, but say the exact same words.
Recreating or literally re-uploading
your post is a growth hack. I believe
that every post should be posted at
least thrice, at least three times. Post
it today, schedule it 90 days from now,
and schedule it at least 90 days after
that. If you post it three times and all
three times it's flopped and it's
crashed and burned, then you can retire
it and decide maybe it was the way you
presented it. Maybe it's just that topic
people are interested in. Uh maybe there
was a word that you're saying that
didn't make sense. You can then decide
to scrap it and go back to the drawing
board. But if you posted it three times
and one out of the three has done well,
then post it a fourth time, a fifth
time, and keep posting it until you have
three in a row that aren't doing well.
And then you have my permission to
officially retire said post. But this is
the strategy that I use for about 60 to
70% of my posts on Instagram. And I
truly believe that it's how I've been
able to grow so much, be hyper
consistent, and spend very little time
on Instagram. Realistically, I spend
less than an hour a day. Once I did a
study where I saw like what was my
minimum amount of time, and I spent less
than 30 minutes a day on Instagram, but
I'm still growing at a rate of hundreds
of followers every single day. I'm still
pumping out numerous posts every single
day. And in just a second, we'll talk
about why that's so important. But
upycling your content will be so freeing
for you. And if you take nothing else
away from this episode, go through your
catalog of posts from 3 months ago or
older and pick a few out that you could
repost in the future. With all that
being said, that brings me to my fourth
strategy to help you see better results
on Instagram. I mentioned it a moment
ago. It is hyperconistency.
The more you post, the more you grow.
Should you post once a day? Sure. Should
you post once a week? Sure. Can you see
results posting once a month? Sure. But
on average, the more you post to your
feed, the more growth, views, and
engagement you see in return. So to say
it another way, three posts is better
than two posts. Two posts a day is
better than one post. One post a day is
better than one post every other day.
There is no such thing as algorithm
crowding. It's not like the algorithm is
going to say, "Oh, this person is
posting too much, so we're going to show
them to less people." If your posts are
engaging, if they're captivating, and as
long as the quality is not declining,
the more you post, the more you grow.
So, I want you not to work harder, not
to like hustle culture yourself and stay
up till 3:00 a.m. making reels for
Instagram. Instead, I want you to use
strategies like upycling. I want you to
use strategies like fck perfection. Stop
trying to make such perfect posts and
overed it and over analyze every post
you make and instead rip the band-aid
off and just press post. I want you to
do these things because they will allow
you to post more, stress less, and see
better results. The fifth way that you
can see better results on Instagram
moving forward is to start posting more
carousels. Over the last few years,
there has been such a widespread
adoption of reels that a lot of people
have abandoned photos and carousels
altogether. And this makes sense because
for a while, for the first few years
that reels existed, Instagram was
pushing reels like crazy. They wanted
the adoption to take place. They wanted
us all to start using and consuming
reels. Congratulations, Instagram. You
did your job. But now so many people are
not posting any carousels. And I
understand we have this thought that
like carousels are hard to create.
They're complicated. They're going to
take a bunch of time. I would argue that
in many cases they're actually easier
than reels to create. And I've done a
few episodes now about carousel ideas
that are easy to make and currently
trending, popular, or going viral. And
they're not just like the generic Canva
template graphics that you've seen that
have been going around since 2016. I've
actually done two episodes each with
eight different carousel ideas. I'll
link those up down in the show notes
below. But the TLDDR of it is a recent
study was published by Metricool where
they analyzed hundreds of millions of
posts and they found that on average
carousels are getting more engagement
and a higher engagement rate than reals.
Now, on average, reels are still getting
slightly more views than carousels and
reels are helping you reach more new
people, more nonfollowers than carousels
on average. But carousels have a higher
reach to your existing followers. Like I
mentioned a moment ago, they have a
higher engagement rate. So more likes,
comments, saves, and shares than reals.
And because most people are so focused
on posting mostly reels, when you post
carousels, you lower the level of
competition that your post has to
compete with, and thus you can see much
better results. So if you're not
currently using carousels, I highly
recommend adding them into your strategy
moving forward. And part of adding them
into your strategy brings me to my sixth
way that you're going to see better
results on Instagram, and that's
variety. Variety is the spice of life,
and it is the price of likes. I know a
lot of people are big fans of content
pillars, and I know a lot of people are
big fans of creating repeatable series,
and I think that those things can be
effective, but I think that you also
need to be constantly experimenting. You
need to be constantly trying out new
ideas, new formats, and new styles. If
you've never done a voiceover reel, give
one a shot. If you've never done an
inspirational carousel, try one out. If
you've never made a reel that was a
behind-the-scenes day in the life vlog,
give it a shot. Basically, constantly be
trying out different kinds of content.
And don't judge that one piece of
content as if that is the ultimate
result. And what I mean by that is if
you make one voice over reel and it
bombs and it flops, that's not a failure
because you experimented. You gave your
audience something else to consume with.
You re-engaged even just a few people
who might otherwise have been bored by
your same old same old content. And one
post is not enough of an experiment.
Give at least a couple. Give at least a
dozen posts with this style before you
write it off completely. But even if all
dozen of those posts flop and fail and
they don't do very well, I want you to
continue to experiment. I believe that
the sign of a healthy, thriving, growing
Instagram is this. Some posts do well,
some posts flop. Some posts go viral,
some posts reach no one. Some posts get
thousands of likes, some posts get seven
likes. I believe that that is the sign
of a healthy Instagram. I think that if
every single one of your posts is doing
well, it means that you're healthy and
thriving for right now. But I think that
you are going to be rapidly approaching
a cliff because eventually user habits
are going to change. People are going to
get bored of that style. If every single
one of your posts look the same and
you're having great results, I think
that's scary because eventually that
same post that you keep making over and
over again is not going to hit the same.
People are going to get bored of it.
People are going to get tired of it. And
then you're suddenly going to be stuck
in a place where you only know how to
create one kind of post and people don't
like that one kind of post. That's the
trap that a lot of people have fallen
into with B-roll reels. That's the trap
that a lot of people fell into in 2021
with voice over or lip-sync reels.
Constantly be experimenting. constantly
be adding variety to your kinds of
posts. And remember that just because a
post doesn't perform well, it's
important to always be testing. And
speaking of testing, last but not least,
the seventh and final strategy to help
you see better results on Instagram is
trial reels. Trial reels are a feature
that were announced almost exactly a
year ago. And they are a kind of reel
that is only shown to nonfollowers.
They're only shown to new people. And so
it makes sense if 100% of your viewers
are non-followers, they're a great
opportunity to convert people into
followers. I recommend posting no more
and no less than five trial reels per
day. Now, Instagram has recently made
some big changes to trial reels, namely
that you can no longer re-upload trial
reels. So, you know, my upycling
strategy that I was raving about earlier
that works on the feed and Instagram
themselves, Adam Moseri himself has said
that yes, you can upcycle, you can
repost onto your feed, that's totally
allowed. They have also explicitly said
that you cannot upcycle or re-upload as
trial reels. So if you posted a reel in
April of 2025, you are totally free and
clear. The algorithm will not punish you
if you post it again to your feed
whenever. But if you take that reel that
you have previously posted and you try
to upload it as a trial reel, it may not
work as well. Specifically, what we have
noticed recently is that taking a past
trial reel and uploading it again as a
duplicate trial reel is almost certain
to not work. You're almost certain that
you're going to get a popup from
Instagram that says, "Hey, this looks
like a duplicate of something you've
posted before and thus we're going to
show it to less people." And some people
have even noticed that if they take what
was previously a normal reel, again,
let's assume you posted it back in April
of 2025 and now you're posting it as a
trial reel. Some people have even seen
that that is getting shown to less
people and that is causing the popup of,
hey, this is a duplicate. So, test it
out for yourself and see if you have the
ability to post previously posted normal
reels as trial reels. If you don't, then
you're going to have to make entirely
new posts for your trial reels. And
making five entirely new posts a day, I
know it sounds daunting and it sounds
like a lot of work. So, I created an
entire episode that I just uploaded a
few weeks ago about trial reels with all
of my strategies and best practices,
including recommended posts and examples
of what your trial reels could look like
that will be low effort but likely bring
in a higher percentage of followers. So,
make sure to check that out. Don't
forget to subscribe and as always, happy
networking.